docs: add public-api related content (#6218)
apache/apisix: docs/en/latest/plugins/public-api.md

# this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
# The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
# (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
# the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
#
#     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License.
#
-->

## Summary

- [**Description**](#description)
- [**Attributes**](#attributes)
- [**Example**](#example)

## Description

The `public-api` plugin is used to enhance the plugin public API access control.
When current users develop custom plugins, they can register some public APIs for fixed functionality, such as the `/apisix/plugin/jwt/sign` API in `jwt-auth`. These APIs can only apply limited plugins for access control (currently only `ip-restriction`) by way of plugin interceptors.

> With the `public-api` plugin, we put the all public API into general HTTP API router, which is consistent with the normal route registered by the user and can apply any plugin. The public API added in the user plugin is no longer open by default by APISIX, but the user manually configures the route for it, and the user can configure any uri and plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the `public-api` plugin, we put all public API into the general HTTP API router, which is consistent with the normal route registered by the user and can apply any plugin. The public API added in the user plugin is no longer open by default by APISIX, but the user manually configures the route for it, and the user can configure any uri and plugin.
```

> With the `public-api` plugin, we put the all public API into general HTTP API router, which is consistent with the normal route registered by the user and can apply any plugin. The public API added in the user plugin is no longer open by default by APISIX, but the user manually configures the route for it, and the user can configure any uri and plugin.

Reviewer 2: I prefer to using Route instead of route, so developers could know what's indeed normal router 😉

```suggestion
With the `public-api` plugin, we put all public APIs into general HTTP API router, which is consistent with the normal Route registered by the user and can apply any plugin. The public API added in the user plugin is no longer accessible by default by APISIX, and the user has to manually configure the route for it, the user can configure any uri and plugin.
```

Author: fixed

## Attributes

> | Name | Type | Requirement | Default | Valid | Description |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Name | Type | Required | Default | Valid | Description |
```

Author: https://github.com/apache/apisix/blob/master/docs/en/latest/plugins/cors.md?plain=1#L36-L38

Other documents also use Requirement.

Reviewer 3: here `Requirement` is follow other docs.

Reviewer 2: ok

> | Name | Type | Requirement | Default | Valid | Description |
> | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- |
> | uri | string | optional | "" |   | The uri of the public API. When you set up the route, you can use this to configure the original API uri if it is used in a way that is inconsistent with the original public API uri. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Name | Type   | Requirement | Default | Valid | Description                                                                                                                                                                            |
|------|--------|-------------|---------|-------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| uri  | string | optional    | ""      |       | The uri of the public API. When you set up the route, you can use this to configure the original API uri if it is used in a way that is inconsistent with the original public API uri. |
```

wrong table format

Author: @tzssangglass Is this the new specification we are implementing? I've written documents before that use this style.

Reviewer 3: my bad, it's just that I noticed in the IDE that it's not formatted correctly to show up as a table.
I just checked its presentation on github and it is correct.

### Customize URI

Let's setup another route.

```shell
$ curl -X PUT 'http://127.0.0.1:9080/apisix/admin/routes/r2' \
    -H 'X-API-KEY: <api-key>' \
    -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    -d '{
    "uri": "/gen_token",
    "plugins": {
        "public-api": {
            "uri": "/apisix/plugin/jwt/sign"
        }
    }
}'
```

Let's test it.

```shell
$ curl 'http://127.0.0.1:9080/gen_token?key=user-key'
```

It will still respond to a text JWT. We can see that users are free to configure URI for the public API to match.

### Protect Route

Let's modify the last route and add `key-auth` authentication to it.

```shell
$ curl -X PUT 'http://127.0.0.1:9080/apisix/admin/routes/r2' \
    -H 'X-API-KEY: <api-key>' \
    -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    -d '{
    "uri": "/gen_token",
    "plugins": {
        "public-api": {
            "uri": "/apisix/plugin/jwt/sign"
        },
        "key-auth": {}
    }
}'
```

Let's test it.

```shell
$ curl -i 'http://127.0.0.1:9080/gen_token?key=user-key'
    -H "apikey: test-apikey"
HTTP/1.1 200 OK

# Failed request
$ curl -i 'http://127.0.0.1:9080/gen_token?key=user-key'
HTTP/1.1 401 UNAUTHORIZED
```

> 

Reviewer 3: how about use 

```
$ curl 'http://127.0.0.1:9080/apisix/plugin/jwt/sign?key=user-key'
```

to get token atfer protecting this route?

Author: This is inherited from the second case. If you don't use the `/get_token` route, you can just configure the public API route in the first way (Basic Use Case).

Reviewer 3: Does this mean that the `/apisix/plugin/jwt/sign` is still exposed?

Author: @tzssangglass 

It will still be inserted into the radixtree built in `api_router` at startup, but in the default `http_access_phase`, no match will be made. If the user configures a route for it and turns on the `public-api` plugin, we do an `api_router` match in the `public-api` plugin's access hook to process the public API request.

Therefore, the conclusion is that it is not exposed and the user needs to configure the route to access it.

Reviewer 3: got
